Title: Website Performance and Security: A Comparative Analysis of 1000 
Websites

June 2021, Research Report
---
All Rights Reserved. No part of this publication may be reprinted or 
reproduced or utilised in any form or by any electronic, mechanical or 
other means, known now or hereafter invented, including photocopying and
 recording, or in any information storage or retrieval system, without 
 permission in writing from Matthieu Petrigh.

Copyright © 2021 Matthieu Petrigh
---
Contents
[1] Prologue
[2] Research methodology
[3] Results
[3.1] Speed
[3.2] Security
[3.3] Errors
[4] The Best, The Average, and The Worst
[5] Conclusions
[6] Appendix
---
[1] Prologue

Web performance is the objective measurement and perceived user 
experience of a website or application. It involves measuring the actual
 and perceived speeds and security of an application, optimising where 
 possible, and then monitoring the performance, to ensure that what has 
 been optimised stays optimised. This involves a number of metrics 
 (measurable indicators that can indicate success or failure) and tools 
 to measure those metrics. Many features impact performance including 
 latency, application size, the number of DOM nodes, the number of 
 resource requests made, JavaScript performance, CPU load, bad security 
 practices and more.
Bad performing sites are slow to display and slow to respond to input, 
and they increase site abandonment and security risks for their users. 
At its worst, bad performance causes content to be completely 
inaccessible. A good goal for web performance is for users to not notice
 performance. While an individual's perception of site performance is 
 subjective, loading, rendering and a good security can be measured.
Good performance may not be obvious to most site visitors, but most will
 immediately recognise a sluggish and insecure website.
Web performance is thus important for accessibility and also for other 
website metrics that serve the goals of an organisation or business. 
Good or bad website performance correlates powerfully to user 
experience, as well as the overall effectiveness of most sites. In this 
comparative analysis, I have benchmarked 1,000 websites against three 
criteria (speed, code purity and security) using tools found in the 
public domain; and well, the results speak for themselves.

[2] Research Methodology

An Internet search using the keywords “security companies”, “cyber 
security companies” and “security degrees” has been made using four 
different Google Search Engine (google.com; google.co.uk; google.ca; and
 google.com.au). The first 100 results for each ‘keyword’ have been 
 taken into account and each corresponding website analysed.
Using this systematic approach, a sample of 1,000 websites’ homepages 
has been carefully reviewed. Each analysis has been made using open 
source software according to three criteria which matter to website 
performance, namely speed, code purity and security:

- Google PageSpeed Insights (speed);
- W3C Validator (code purity);
- Mozilla Observatory (security).

Google PageSpeed Insights (PSI) analyses the content of a web page, and 
then generates suggestions to make that page faster. It reports on the 
performance of a page on both mobile and desktop devices, and provides 
suggestions on how that page may be improved. PSI provides a score 
which summarises the page’s performance. This score is determined by 
running Lighthouse to collect and analyse lab data about the page. A 
score of 90% or above is considered good. 50% to 90% is a score that 
needs improvement, and below 50% is considered poor.
W3C’s Markup Validation Service is a validator developed by the World 
Wide Web Consortium that allows Internet users to check pre-HTML5, HTML 
and XHTML documents for well-formed markup against a document type 
definition. Markup validation is an important step towards ensuring the 
technical quality of web pages.
The Mozilla Observatory has helped over 240,000 websites by teaching 
developers, system administrators, and security professionals how to 
configure their sites safely and securely. The tool aims to help 
developers and security professionals be aware of potential issues and 
help resolve them for a more safe and secure Internet.
The scores and grades oﬀered by the Mozilla Observatory are designed to 
alert developers when they are not taking advantage of the latest web 
security features. Grades vary between 0% and 135%, 0% being the lowest 
grade, and 135% being the highest mark.

[3] Results:

[3.1] Speed

In terms of speed (average desktop and mobile), UK websites are better 
performing than their US and Canadian counterparts. The findings of this 
research suggest that websites owned by security companies are slightly 
faster than those belonging to cyber security companies and 
universities.

- Speed average for UK websites: 57.75%
- Speed average for US websites: 48.40 %
- Speed average for Canadian websites: 54.96%
- Overall speed average (UK, US, Canada): 53.70%

[3.2] Security

Evidence demonstrates that websites owned by US security and cyber 
security companies are more secure than their UK and Canadian 
counterparts, whereas in average, UK websites have the lowest security 
rating, and US websites are 5% to 6% more secure than others.

- Security average for UK websites: 17.10%
- Security average for US websites: 23.16%
- Security average for Canadian websites: 17.51%
- Overall security average (UK, US, Canada): 19.26%

[3.3] Errors

Websites owned by UK security companies have, in average, 89.74 errors 
on their homepage whilst US websites score 86.10 errors and Canadian 
ones 96.96 errors. On the other hand, websites belonging to UK 
universities and training centres are averaging 56.56 errors, whilst US 
websites have 54.95 errors and Canadian ones 66.34 errors.

- Errors average for homepage of UK websites: 73.10 errors
- Errors average for homepage of US websites: 82.57 errors
- Errors average for homepage of Canadian websites: 74.47 errors
- Overall errors average on homepages (UK, US, Canada): 76.71 errors

[4] The Best, The Average, and The Worst

During this research, 1,000 websites’ homepages have been systematically 
analysed. Few websites are clearly above others in terms of overall 
performance (speed and security), and some of them are clearly below 
average. What the evidence reveals?

Best website
- Speed: 98.50%
- Security: 120%
- Errors: 0

Average website
- Speed: 53.70%
- Security: 19.26%
- Errors: 77.38 errors

Worst website
- Speed:12.50%
- Security: 0%
- Errors: 1,001 errors

[5] Conclusions

This small scale research has demonstrated that all too often, the 
overall performance of websites (speed and security) is rather weak, 
with an average performance of 36.48%. More importantly, evidence 
reveals that website’s security is not taken seriously by their 
respective owners, with an average security rating of only 19.26%. 
The findings are indeed raising some important concerns since the 
websites having been analysed during this study belong to organisations 
‘selling security’ or teaching it. However, it appears that some eﬀorts 
are being done by websites owners as these relate to having faster 
websites, specifically when these are displayed on desktops.

[6] Appendix

Raw Data
For those of you who are interested in accessing the raw data of the 
research, a spreadsheet in Excel can be downloaded for free at:

https://drive.proton.me/urls/Z7BXAW3J20#3YwkIXY4UcQr
Password: iliketoresearch

The names of the 1,000 companies and their respective websites having 
been analysed are accessible in the document, altogether with their 
speed score (both mobile and desktop), security rating and number of 
code errors.

Raw data contains
- Name of company
- Website address
- Page speed on mobile devices
- Page speed on desktops
- Number of code errors
- Security rating
- Date of the analysis
- Average performance

Dashboard contains
- Analytical tables
- Figures and graphs
